cool snow we're now recording hello
everyone welcome to the package manager
weekly sinks edifice of March 2019 we're
gonna play the game of what I did last
week why I'm blocked on and what I'm
gonna do next note-taker
thanks Jim cool so what have I been
doing
right so I've been a holiday so I'm
actually done very much I found a
problem with NPM ipfs where the pub/sub
mechanism that it used to broadcast
updates of new modules will just stop
working after a while turns out there's
a magic number that is how big a pub/sub
message can be and if you send a message
that's bigger than that to subscribe
this daily disconnect from you I didn't
see that documented anywhere but there
was a an issue that said it might be a
good idea so seems like something's
implemented it over there documents
Vaska is gonna have a look into the
implementation see where that's how she
said please make sure and get it to
throwing appropriate error message if
you are the if you're about to send a
message is going to cause people to
disconnect from it's not going to stop
malicious clients doing obviously but
you know to the developer who's trying
to do the right thing it'll be nice for
them to know sooner rather than later
yeah that's it I'm not blocked on
anything
next I'm I need to stop working on my
okay I realized I haven't really done
anything towards my goal not very much
was my occurs cuz I've been kind of
consumed by a lot of package manager
stuff so that's probably gonna be me for
the next week
anybody got any question what are your
okay they just personal things
no no they I think they can be sure yeah
they can be sure it's things like adding
missing features to ipfs
well I shall show you know trying to add
support to tink for ipfs which then
turned out to be earning support
p.m. itself five FS because pink just
uses NPM CLI to install dependencies and
I kind of got so far down that hole
there it was clear that it would require
more work than I imagined the NPM team
would be willing to accept without kind
of prior consultation you know because
they want their inputs into how they did
because there's no there's no like kind
of notion of different transports like
you have in in apps or anything my lies
just HTTP all over the place
you know so like you for example like
you have there's these modules that will
return HTTP responses and then the
consumer of that will start looking at
like headers and that kind of thing in
the response to extract metadata that it
would use to process the dependency so
there's not a nice like clear separation
between the transport and the data so
that kind of thing would need to pick a
refactor which has kind of beyond the
scope of why I was trying to do okay
so I've had some fun this week whilst
alex has been away merged a couple of
poor requests that I had opened last
week to add a glossary and list of
package managers to the package manager
repository and then I actually managed
to implement ipfs support in homebrew
I've not sent a pull request yet because
I I did share the the work that I've
done with Mike McQuaid and he said that
it would be unlikely that they would
merge a ipfs transport until the package
that had its primary source available
requiring ipfs which was interesting
because ipfs is a homebrew formula so
there might be a lever that could be
used to to kind of bend that slightly
actually turned out to be quite easy
homebrew already has a number of
different
transports that you can use to I'll
paste a link actually in the chat here
as well to make different kinds of
checkouts it uses the original URL and
then you basically would add the hash in
as an extra argument and if that hash is
available it will try and download it
via IP FS and then the nice thing about
homebrew is that you can fork the whole
registry and add that in so we could
potentially have a fairly simple way of
saying like brew install ipfs slash core
slash package name and have that pulled
from ipfs assuming that we've backed all
of those formulas somewhere so that
there's always someone seeding them
the only real area that's not supported
from the end users point of view is
bottles which are the pre-built binaries
but I don't believe that would be too
hard to add in because they use the same
transport underlying transport mechanism
so I think like the same ipfs transport
will be available for use for the
bottles is just that the URLs aren't
declared they're inferred because they
only use one source for the bottles
which is the or the built in one which
is the homebrew bin tray and then Linux
brew uses like pin tray under Linux brew
rather than homebrew as a different name
so that would be fairly easy to add in
the area that would be more difficult to
make it like especially full IP FS is
cloning the homebrew formula repository
from I
PFS rather than from github because it
is a gigantic repository and it was like
200 and something megabytes so they
could end up being some files that were
rather large there and making that work
with the existing get it basically it
always clones the or like shadow clones
the latest version of the repository so
that they don't have the same kind of
different ways of transporting their
registry around which means we can't
just pluck like a copy of the file
system as like the latest checkout which
is a bit of a shame but it might be
doable but it's also kind of the kind of
thing that you could step into it yes
Jim I did check out get on ipfs there's
a tricky limitation with the number the
maximum size of a file that that gets
into like the the problem of trying to
make it like say that you can do git
clone with ipfs is that transport rather
than just like checking out like
downloading a git repository that
happens to be on ipfs but I think
there's things that can be done there
and it doesn't have to necessarily be
all all in straightaway
so it might be interesting to try and
add more basically write a script that
will go through the formulas add them
all to ipfs and commit the hashes to a
fork that then someone could use instead
and Mike McQuaid the homebrew maintainer
seemed pretty open like an interested in
it rather than kind of dismissive her
and it's it's there might be an option
to
and what else do they do I also spent
some time re working or writing out a
different approach to categorization
which is grouped by implementation from
ipfs standpoint and that basically
groups three different categorizations
that quote quite closely match to my
previous categorizations of multi
registry centralized registry portable
registry the main groupings being
filesystem based which is most system
package managers that's probably because
our sync works really well for keeping
mirrors of those things that they can
literally just treat everything as a
file in the file system copying that
around is actually fairly easy but it
means that they're all their metadata is
stored in files maven and Sipan also
work like that then you've got the
database back ones which tend to be more
modern and have like a sequel or like
some kind of web application with
database that is doing authentication
and like handling that transformation of
packages usually it means it is quite
self-service you don't need to get
someone to add the packages to the file
system yourself which happens on maven
for example you need to send your
package to maven central and say can you
publish this and whereas most of the
database ones don't require the sharing
like don't require someone else to be
available for you to publish your
package but the downside is that it's
not anywhere near easy to to mirror that
because you need a copy of the database
you need to run the web application
server or you need to make something
that pretends to be the web application
server and all or at least I haven't
seen any kind of shared API spec that is
used between different registries they
all implement their own wonderful unique
JSON or XML or in the case of the
closure registry
over HTTP to talk to their individual
clients and then the yes I could see
Michael laughing is I was ridiculous and
actually like execute that you get given
back closure maps which are data and you
can load up in closure but it's it's
really not very nice to try and work
with it if you're not writing your
parser or your your client in closure
and then the third one is get based
which kind of two different kinds the
portable registries end up being using
git as a database where they're putting
history of all of the things that are
published usually just the metadata
directly into a file system like very
similar shape to the file system
registries except for then they're
versioned almost always to use github as
the infrastructure so they don't have to
host their own databases and be their
own DBAs but also that then you have
some kind of history of versioning which
requires a lot more implementation if
you're going to do it yourself so it's
it's kind of like the lazy maintainer
zwey which is totally reasonable it does
mean that when you get to like home brew
size and history you can't actually view
the history of any one package in git
because github just is like no this
times out this takes way too long to to
step through the git history but there's
some interesting things there
also notice that apart from homebrew
most of those all have a database as
well to power their web applications
homebrew actually exports their registry
into JSON files and puts it on github
pages so that you can like you don't
have to use git as a database in
production because that ends up being
incredibly slow in general and then the
registry when registry lists style get
registries are basically like like go or
Swift or carthage where you just point
your
no namespace and in cases are URLs on
the internet that point to git
repositories and the history of the
versions is stored inside each one of
those git repositories so the actual
dependency resolution ends up being
quite slow because your cloning
recursive git repositories and trawling
their history of their tags or their git
commits may be on different branches as
well but it's ends up being like there's
no there's no requirement for anyone to
check anything when any new published
package goes out so there's very little
in the way of gatekeepers which is what
and then go comes from the like
everything is going to be vended anyway
inside of google this also happens to
work for other people maybe and they're
slowly bringing you back to being useful
for people outside of outside of Google
but it's still in flux a lot whereas
Swift and Carthage are much more stable
they're not changing on a regular basis
and they're all susceptible to the
repository is going away a repository
being forced pushed to some of them will
keep track of what the repositories look
like last time that they talked to them
and other ones won't so that's kind of
gives an interesting way of thinking
about when we come to solve a problem
for one of the registries on ipfs that
potentially that maps to like that we
can document that process and then go oh
this can also be used for all of these
other kinds that work very simply
assuming the clients are going to have
their own implementations and things but
from the ipfs mapping of like file
system or wicked a we got to keep some
kind of database on here or at least a
pretend database of the results of the
API on a path that might make it
slightly easier or at least chunk it up
when tackling each individual thing
what else do they do well so just put
out and just open this issue about
getting this working group public it's
really more of a discussion start point
as the links in the crib pad and it's on
the github repository just thinking
about like are there any steps that we
need to do before we can start having
these discussions in public so we can
point people there I tried to organize a
call with someone in New Zealand and
it's actually really hard to schedule a
time that's not for one of us like 3
a.m. so I thought it'd be much easier if
we could do this asynchronously on on a
a document that was on github and the
other thing tiny little thing as I was
learning about homebrew and how that
worked
I found the IP FS package depended on a
number of things that weren't actually
use because IP FS is make file
bootstraps itself via IP FS through the
Gateway it doesn't actually use GX when
it's building it downloads its own copy
of GX so I was able to remove three
different dependencies from the homebrew
formula so anyone who installs IP fsy
homebrew now has it's just much faster
because they're not playing down
dependencies and never get used and that
go accepted along with a number of a
fixes that I found for formulas that do
some go basically implements its own
wrappers around package managers it
doesn't trust Python and go being the
two that I've stumbled across the way
they're like well put in and every
individual
level or potentially even transitive
dependency as git repositories in our
homebrew formula and they will be cloned
into the path they're expecting to be
once the package manager would have
finished doing what it's doing so that a
formula is repeatable
rather than being changed every time
that the the bottle server would build
which is quite interesting as a has a
bit of a crutch that they they basically
work around how other package managers
work although homebrew has its own
problems with that where they're
basically always like it's really only
supported on the latest version of
anything and previous versions are I
considered to be unsupported but that
also built up a bit of goodwill with a
homebrew people when it comes to
actually like saying hey we should get
this up ipfs stuff implemented kirok and
adding like making the ipfs homebrew you
know install require ipfs is too cheeky
to get like FS as a transport inside yes
pretty cheeky like literally the worst
pattern but if you're just like mmm how
do we get the first time around is it's
slightly painful as it's more like we're
going to need to have this as this is a
good transport and this is what the ipfs
project says the best way to download it
is even if the first time you're going
to download it over HTTP through the
Gateway rather than over that having to
somehow find the IP FS binary to be able
to install the IP FS by new
Michael yeah so one so in the sort of
category of package managers where we
can probably sort of take the database
and run with it
one thing that I worry about is a lot of
times the way that they that you export
or that you get a feed of that data is
somewhat out-of-date or it eventually
becomes out-of-date this actually
happened with NPM so like initially the
feed that you would use to sort of
replicate the database was the live
database and then as I scaled up that
changed and it went from being like a
couple seconds behind to now there are
literally different systems and because
the updates are so fast it's like ten
minutes behind so it's still a really
good option if we want to build like an
offline capable version of the package
manager like we can pull the data in we
can turn it into IP LD terms or whatever
we need to do to move the data around
but if we're doing sort of like live
package installs we always have to hit
that live API because if you just
publish the package and then you try to
install it you won't get it right unless
we always hit that live one we actually
have a connection yeah this all of the
database package managers are gonna have
a similar problem like NPM is actually
pretty reasonable for getting data out
some of them don't even have RSS feeds
or any way of saying is there a new
package here you literally have to trawl
through maybe even paginate a list of
HTML links on a page to find out if
there is a new thing so there's those
ones I think the kind of approach is
there's two approaches I can see one is
going to be like we actually get ipfs
support directly in the production
registry like API so it's it's doing the
work of oh if I published a new package
I've also announced it and added it to
ipfs and added the the see ID into my
database and it's available via the API
and the other way is the e kind of
artifactory style proxy that's gonna
lazily go to the registry and ideally
like
have enough caching or like BFS back
cashing that it can go offline or it can
be lazy with the way that's doing but
yeah you you're not able to they also
there's no there's often no like I think
NPM just recently added the ability to
roll back in time and say oh I want
packages from before this date most of
them don't have that that kind of like
ability to it's always assumed that
you're running on the bleeding edge of
the registry and things may or may not
work otherwise the interesting one there
that stands out to me is the our
community has a package manager called
cran and their package manager doesn't
allow you to pin the the latest you
basically can't say there's a maximum
version number in that means you always
pick up the newest version there's no
way of saying you don't want that and so
the community routes around that by
making a snapshot of the registry every
single day
this is funded hosted by Microsoft
it's called M ran for Microsoft cran and
so you can actually point your registry
when you say I want to install all the
packages for this our program you save
the day that you want to install it on
and everyone then basically freezes
their whole community in time because
they can't they come back out over a
broken new version you can only roll
forwards and that's not really an
acceptable way of doing it so that ipfs
has that like the ideal copy there to go
well you can always roll back to a
previous especially if we're using a
kind of like some top-level route that
holds all of the metadata you can always
point back to a previous version of that
metadata assuming that someone else is
hosting it or has made it available or
that you're I guess you've become
responsible for your own mess there at
some point
I think we should like really be sharing
for the first option where we get people
to add CID is directly to the metadata
for the actual registries that we're on
it
you know we're trying to target because
we've got this incoming IP investing and
to be honest it really shouldn't exist
you know because it's yeah we have to
maintain we have to write it we have to
maintain it we have to host it you know
whereas if the actual registries were
just adding like reversible then I think
that like in order to get them to take
that though we have to show the value
first and so we're gonna have to at
least for some period of time there to
show them yeah like so the speaking of
immutability so how many package
manager' registries have any kind of
immutability guarantee in the metadata
like any anything like a Shaw or
anything did you oh yeah so we're your
music dude I think you must be muted
like on your mic or something because it
doesn't say that you're muted in zoom Oh
Mike maybe he's not said yeah hello
there you go I dunno it's so quiet
let someone else answer my calls um so a
good number of package managers have
some kind of sha-256
on individual packages but very few have
any kind of like the the metadata is
often seen as almost ephemeral it's
quite difficult the ones that do have it
are Nick's and geeks so that's basically
like we take snapshots of everything all
the time and timeless stack obviously
also has that Eric's just quietly
lurking down there on the bottom and I
guess you kind of you
have it halfway with with the get backed
ones but your your hoping like that a
lot of the get back ones will have the
metadata stored in an immutable way but
they point at HTTP URLs on s3 or
randomly on the like homebrew point sir
whoever is hosting the source originally
which could be some university or it
could be anything it doesn't mean I can
roll back six months and all of the URLs
on all of those formulas will will
resolve correctly so you're not going to
have that like nice way of being able to
snapshot and roll back the whole thing
which is why you see lots of companies
use I think artifactory and things like
that because they want to be able to
freeze the world or vendor literally
vendor every strings everything straight
into your mono repo is the other way of
guaranteeing that but you lose a lot of
of tooling in the process a couple
minutes left any other questions
Jim I've done some experimenting with
es6 modules and maybe if I screen sherek
I could show a few things
dissociation some projects so the main
thing that people so es6 modules there
they've been coming for a few years in
web browsers and they let you write es6
javascript and instead of in nodejs we
do require with NPM name you can go
import you can import from an HTTP URL
so it's really the opposite of package
managers but the thing is like all the
JavaScript lives on NPM so people so
there's this CDN service called
unpackage which allows you to use this
import syntax via HTTP to the CDN and
in the CDN unpacks oh that all the NPMs
so it's sort of exploding all the NPM is
out so they all can be referred by HTTP
but it's got to do some special little
tricks to do it there's something in
here but this is the project and that
seems interesting to me cuz like if we
have all of NPM we can also explode it
and then we'll have like see IDs for
each and every little file which if
they're exposed via HTTP that would just
work well so with unpackage I think did
you terabytes holy moly yeah I think so
with unpackage it just um hosts the
content so in order for that one to work
you have to basically as part of your
publish step do a build and then include
the build files for browsers in the NPM
package so it's a little bit dependent
on like you having some tooling up front
to do that for browsers Piku package
took a different route which is get
there they've got it out but they there
for their new services like this HTTP to
interface that if you're using import
syntax in your raw module it will just
pull the the raw file there's no build
necessary right that's why they've been
indexing all of the packages that
actually do that like that made no sense
until they released the sillier thing
and now that they really thing it's like
oh yeah it's actually really elegant
like you don't need to build separate
anyways just the idea of doing raw
import over HTTP with the source files
in NPM I think that's a powerful idea
there's some related things so no GS was
written by Ryan Dahl nice to work with
that giant and he's doing this new thing
called denno which is like node but he
switched the characters around and he's
basically saying no NPM I hate NPM which
is funny because you know he used best
friends at Isaac but like hey his main
motivation for doing this project was
that he didn't like him talk to him
but it's sort of awesome because it's
like anyway if we had the raw files the
other weird thing is he's saying only
typescript files but he there's already
an issue on denno which he closed which
is saying support for IP FS and they're
like hey and he's got a great this is
this move not anytime soon I can
conceive of it happening someday but
yours in the future but ipfs is not very
good right now
antenna is not very good right now
because it's just a canary but at this
point it's just 21 days ago I work with
Ryan I like Ryan so I thought that was
interesting
sorry there's I think there's an
opportunity there because it's sort of
primordial starting goo this project so
I don't know how far he's gonna go one
of his complaints is is the immutability
issues right like having to resolve like
versions and all of that kind of mess
and he sort of likes the go model that
you just like pointed at an earl but he
hates the fact that that's like mutable
so I think that they get there yeah
there could be an interesting
opportunity yeah
and then another what this is an
interesting project from guys involved
with that he's actually done this for
ipfs it's basically like he's taking no
GS and mr. on with the loaders so you
can load a sheet es6 modules over HTTP
directly so you can use imports and tax
on nodejs itself so you can use
unpackage so and Kosala iraq leagues
actually been using this in his lunette
project so that's what injury hello it's
not so bad like as it gets cached like
once it's loaded maybe the first time
it's gonna be a little bit slow but I
I've never seen anybody done really big
things so I've done some experience with
es6 modules myself
I'm the web or like glue apart like
really big packages and it can get
pretty slow but I put them on that and
once everything's you know sync locally
it's not so bad like so I've got some
experiments from last year I can show
that so I think this is a somewhere we
could go I think another project
dimension is TX GS which is one of ours
so JavaScript modules to BFS I don't
know how this all fits but like we have
we're gonna have NPM we're going to have
all this fit JavaScript and we can sort
of blow it apart and publish it
immediately so but I could drop some of
these links into a issue on the project
I don't know if it fits into the scope
here stick them in the notes for for
this cool discourse oh yeah over time so
if you need to do that we can continue
chatting for a bit talking of GX I've
been looking into I'm watching some of
the threads on especially on the
protocol labs cluster of go projects
lots of people have a lot of pain with
it and it seems like it's also for
modules that get used that are
dependencies of ipfs they get used by
other projects as well they really want
to not have that pain and I think the
main source of pain is something is is
where GX requires every transitive
dependency to declare its dependencies
as hashes rather than like basically
frozen in time versions which means if
you want to update any transit
dependency you need to update everything
in the chain to be able to get the
latest version of attractive one so it's
gonna write up a little proposal but
it's also not clear how much there seems
to be different there's a bit of
confusion within protocol over how much
GX is like we we definitely want to keep
using it versus we should just let go
modules
like take over and not worry about it so
I think it making an issue and sticking
a sticking a little flag in it to be
like hey like should this be like pay
attention to or might might be a good
place to to like swing the conversation
one way or the other I think it's like
it's one thing if it's just like you
know let's eat our own dog food let's
mess with this but like if we're
strategically trying to get this
actually adopted in a language I think
go we probably have like the least
chance of getting that done oh yeah yeah
I mean like like the yeah the go
maintainer is let's call it hostility
towards other people trying to sell
fairly well-documented yeah
yes we've inflicted like 0% chance you
can see if we're G X turns into more of
a tool for end users or like end
applications web applications written in
go where it's a snapshot of frozen
dependencies in time but it doesn't it
actually continues to work with the
underlying tool that each project has
decided to use which basically is going
to end up as go modules if in a very
slow kind of like transformative way
it's kind of similar gonna be similar to
how node and the browser's are all
moving towards es6 modules it's gonna
always have to have some kind of support
for previous things if some maintainer
x' don't want to get on board
straightway or there are dead projects
which are still heavily depends on it's
gonna take a long time to shake out all
the edges of the leaf nodes of that
massive graph yeah so I sort of see like
GX GX is pretty much dead internally now
because basically both GSI both the go
ipfs and the p2p have already moved to
the go modules so but it's like do we
want to keep the X around but I think
it's it's useful as a learning exercise
in a lot of ways in terms of like
you know if you actually do try to
freeze everything in and expose it right
that like if developers have to deal
with hashes and like you check the
hashes and stuff it's just I tried to do
some ghost stuff with Jax and I just
kept crashing into it and yeah the
transitive dependency thing it's really
difficult goes particularly only there
when you have the import is also like
that string contains all the metadata
that you're gonna say like for that
whole module there's no necessarily
until go modules came along there was no
other files that said anything you'd
need some third-party tool to keep track
of the actual revisions that you like
known working versions of any of those
modules so then swapping the hash out
you're like oh suddenly this means
nothing to me I have no idea of like
where the reference point of this is
somewhere else there's nobody I don't
think ipfs would exist without GX
because the the go ecosystem did not
have the tooling for managing
dependencies and so sort of like Jax had
to be created so you can create ipfs
it's like you the sort of recursive sort
of but I think it's also instructive
because it's like I could sort of see
like like I'm talk about like these the
sort of unpackaged thing like if it's
almost like sort of internal build step
that you go through and then you you
freeze in it's like a bundler step in
terms of like reducing things type
infest hashes that are immutable and
never going to change and they're sort
of like you publish like with bacon
hashes as opposed to using a like a
runtime resolver to look things up which
i think is gonna be the approach that
the most package managers are gonna
require any changes ok slightly imagine
are you still coming up to London yes I
have it in my calendar to come up on the
1450 cuz I work
maybe really is your is your bed or sofa
available
mine is and they'll be really useful to
try and sketch out some kind of plan
going forward so that the other working
groups can start doing they like you to
planning based on yeah I mean so far
this pin everything that I've tried to
do has been like severely limited by
performance when working with any
significant number of like downloading I
think if you try and download all the
packages for ipfs over GX it's like 180
total it takes a good while to do that
and it's not particularly like just just
the downloading from the DHT without
like any with an empty what has good is
empty ipfs cache I remember um so this
is like going aways back but um no did
sue before NPM was a company was sort of
running the registry for a minute cuz
they acquired different Smith company
that was running the VM registry and
they had built this person concept and
never got released as a product but
essentially what it did was when you
gave it a package version to install
what it would return you was basically
the computed deep like graph of
everything that it needed right so it
sucked for caching like that was one of
the main problems like you couldn't
really give it your local cache and you
would get back like this trying to
hardball with stuff that you already had
in it but it was significantly faster
than sort of like going down that data
and then resolving it and if you look at
a lot of the performance improvements
that NPM has made since a lot of it is
like like using the registry metadata
before you pull down a package in order
to understand the graph right I wonder
like in particular if we did something
that I like allowed offline offline
ability you you could create these
really
nice cache states and then when you give
back that cache state as sort of like a
not-guilty graph it would have you know
references to a bunch of things you
actually could have cached locally so
you could do something that was actually
much much faster for installs
if we but it would require like us
building up some infrastructure to do so
ruby gems has has a very elegant
solution to that they have a particular
API they had to build for bundler
because as bun as ruby gems grew it got
way slower to do like downloaded a gem
check what the dependencies are go and
do the same work again and they have
safety I think it's about a four
megabyte file quite quite like crammed
in with information that gives whatever
the current state of all versions and
all of their dependencies that are
published on ruby gems you can download
that file and do the resolution before
you go and download any gem and they
also provide a HTTP api it's basic oh I
want these top-level these ten top-level
gems and what depends is like all of
those things that especially ruby gems
has a problem where it has to make sure
there's only one version of any one
thing but it will return you a full list
if it can to go here is everything that
you actually need to do the work so they
basically dependency resolution as a
service with the current snapshot of the
of all of those gems and then if you
have your own say like gems you pull
from github then it will work those
things in by cloning all of your local
things or all of our secondary registry
things in first and then using sending
that up as like I definitely need to
have these versions of these things so
you'd like extra requirements for you
your dependency resolution that feels
like more package managers could use
that to speed up especially um once I go
and Swift they're like I need to keep
cloning git repositories until I've and
especially when you're like okay why
have my cloning all of kubernetes just
two pulling this one
embedded inside of it yeah I mean like
this is why I'm a little bit like more
interested in sort of the docker or
layer model for what we could do because
the interesting thing about these doctor
layers is that they they are immutable
snapshot at file system so if we have
the hash of them we can effectively say
okay we have that before we pulled down
any data and when they try to access the
data in that file system we can give it
to them in real time there was like a
proof of concept that Matthias beuse
wrote on web torrent like a long time
ago this was like four or five years ago
where he he wrote a few file system on
top of web torrent and would basically
mount a docker image and he would have
none of the files and then it would boot
and it would be like a half a gig image
or something and it would boot in like
10 seconds because the things to boot
the Linux image are like a couple Meg's
you just have no idea what those files
are until you put it so we could get
like you know potentially like insane
performance improvements out of out of
things that we can treat as a layered
file system theoretically we could do
the same thing with any gzip it's just
like unbelievably more expensive to do
the work upfront to unpack the star
balls and turn them into real Muslim and
and I did I did a proof of concept like
earlier on top of I peeled the UNIX MSB
to just looking at like what what could
we do with deduplication if we were
unpacking the gzip and it turns out that
like deduplication does not save you as
much space as you said so also the data
itself that we would be storing would be
higher so that would be problematic
coach Jim okay what you're describing is
basically what the last thing in my blog
is like that I haven't updated in a year
and a half is like called pipette which
is building awful work max and matthias
we're working on awareness but I like
food a whole Linux container and then it
would load up the blocks over that but
then I would just eat because it gets
patients sparse I would just like
capture what was paged in and then I
would like be zip compress it or
something like that
and it would turn out like everything
you need to boot up a particular linux
image could be packed into like 30
megabytes and and do like some pretty
heavy work because mostly most of the
stuff in a typical image it like 99
percent it's never used and that was
really interesting because then you can
just quit the little zip ball and yeah
oh yeah I think we may have reached the
Ender's end of this meeting just a quick
question as I like which is uh I saw the
previous meetings there's like a link to
this is where the videos are and the
github issue but none of them are there
right now
so someone's who missed part of the
meeting I I'd love to be able to see
that and be often on a protocol team
management repo there is a PR albumin
merger which hosts the first two
meetings and has a link to the Google
Drive as the recordings in them we
didn't manage to record the last meeting
because Alex was snowboarding and the
meeting was keyed to his account
unfortunately classic them things okay
thank you all so I posted an interesting
visualization in the metrics repo that I
posted a link to here but it's just the
the q4 of 28 teams additions to each
package manager and it kind of gives you
like a good visualization of the
difference in scale between a lot of the
different kind of comment package
managers and how many packages they're
adding also for reference the last time
that I looked at the data for this
update two packages are also happening
at a much higher rate in NPM as well so
if we wanted to do something like like
Ruby is doing where you you give all the
metadata for the registry state it would
be ginormous because it would also have
to include all the individual versions
and those are you know astronomical yeah
NPM sorry that the module count is is
just top-level package names right it's
not the individual version counts
libraries has a fairly good count of
unique versions as well so that might be
an extra data point to head in there
but the am/pm is it's miles away the
other one that's really hard to pin down
his go like burner and buzzer oh because
he could depends what you declare as a
package so in general all statistics
related to go package management could
just go out the window
yeah no I actually so module accounts
for a while with keeping track of godox
as a package manager number and so I did
a quick analysis and I was like this was
over reporting by about four times what
the actual package is look at it repo or
I did this yeah it was like pretty bad
yeah there's just there's no way to do
anything like I think um we could
probably do if we wanted to look at
dependencies of a specific package we
could do something with bigquery to
actually query inside of every go file
in every master branch and that would
give us a pretty good picture that would
be like a massive query yeah it'd be
kind of expensive to run some to make it
so there's a medium post I love to dig
it out someone has definitely done that
before okay
might be finding that big grating yeah
yeah well so so my my issue with it was
like I couldn't figure out a way to do
it for more than just one package right
so if I wanted to look for like I'm
depending on something with ipfs in it
like that would be doable but if you
just wanted to like categorize any
package and get like a unique list I
thought like it looked like you were
gonna hit the query limit pretty quickly
I think we've gone beyond the realms of
package managers weekly updates I'm
gonna stop recording now and call this
meeting to the close but you know feel
free to keep James to be time exactly
[Music]